Well, hold your place there in your Bible.
2 Corinthians chapter 11, if you would, I have worked very, very hard this week to try to get us through verse six, which is a section, but I found it impossible to get past verse three.
And as we walk through this passage, you'll see why it's so difficult to cover more than three verses because there is so much here.
Back up, if you would with me to 2 Corinthians chapter 10,
chapter 10, verses 3 through 5, open this final section of 2 Corinthians.
And Paul does so very militantly.
You see wartime terminology in those verses, he speaks of, quote, the weapons of our warfare, of waging war, of destroying strongholds, of taking captive.
And all of this is centered upon, as we've seen, the mind and the thoughts.
And the problem in Corinth is that they are entertaining that which is in direct contradiction, opposition to the truth of God.
War time is a time that is ripe for propaganda, for seduction, for trickery, for deception.
In the book, The Body Guard of Lies.
Interestingly, we see some of the deception strategies from World War II
that are unveiled in the midst of that infamous battle.
There was a famous Enigma machine that was used to protect encoded messages.
Many messages were then on the other side accidentally leaked out while others were intentionally leaked out and then decoded and you didn't really know what to believe.
Entire areas at times were filled by the Allies with fake
inflatable blow up tanks, and all sorts of various weaponry.
And they would stock the area with sound machines and all sorts of deceptions to make it look like an attack was fixing to take place when in truth there really was none.
Dead bodies at times during wars have been strategically planted in enemy territory, start with what was hoped to be
actually reliable intel, but quote unquote, accidentally washed up, I planted on enemy shores in order to distract them from the real plots that they were after.
Propaganda was widespread during days before where it would be disseminated from one government to another government, to another people, to other soldiers, even propaganda that spread from one government to its own people.
obviously during times of war all the more.
At times it was nearly impossible through all of the deception to even know what could be relied upon.
Double, even triple agents abounded secretly gathering information on behalf of what was thought to be their government behind enemy lines only to be revealed that they were actually working in the interest of another nation operating as spies.
Even in our day, such seduction is more real than ever.
We've seen this seduction, we've seen this propaganda throughout so many corners of our culture, particularly during the lethal widespread fraud called COVID-19 and all that surrounded that.
The woke mind virus and the propaganda therein.
We have seen over the last few years and even decades
Deception as history is recast, and the people of history is recast so that the villains are made out to be heroes, and the heroes are recast to be villains, and then you're left to try to sort through and discern between the two, not confusing one for the other.
Our modern healthcare system, our modern public education system, certainly our modern politicians.
But friends, I'm here this morning to tell you from 2 Corinthians 11 that unfortunately the greatest hoax in the world happens in the church, happens in the church.
As people are duped, as people are deceived, and as the Bible says, they become as she scattered without an eye towards their shepherd whom we just sang about.
Truth is compromised, deceivers are entertained, wolves appear as sheep and lies and deception abounds.
Unprecedented, I believe in our day, is this issue because of the infiltration of technology and social media.
Never before has it seen that there have been so many voices with access instantly to our lives, so many voices vying
for our attention every second of the day to influence us and to shape our worldview contrary to the truth of scripture.
The title of today's sermon is the great hoax of spiritual seduction.
The great hoax of spiritual seduction.
Look with me, if you will, in 2 Corinthians 11, as we see false teachers have been ravaging the church.
We saw last week at the end of chapter 10 that they are commending themselves by comparing themselves one with another.
In essence, what's happening in the church is a game of spiritual one upmanship.
One is trying to be more spiritual than the other and in his pride, commend himself by stepping over the other.
And one is upping the other and they are duping the church in Corinth with their very winsome ways.
have you ever been talking to someone?
And you can't even get your story out about what happened to you because they've already broken in to share their story and their story trumps your story.
And then by the time we get back to your story, we forgot you had one.
And then they've always got a pedigree that would up your pedigree.
This is what's going on in a very serious way in the church.
And many have repented in chapter seven, but a faction remains.
and problems remain.
We have such widespread confusion even in our church with the vying for influence, for platforms to monopolize your attention, to change our thinking.
And we need discernment, I believe now more than ever.
We need the plumb line of Scripture in order to judge and discern truth from error and faithful ministry from false ministry.
If you look with me now in 2 Corinthians 11, 1 through 6, Paul goes on to lay out his most fundamental concern in the church.
And in summary, I would submit to you that his most fundamental pressing concern in the church is that the church would be distracted from and deceived in their spiritual devotion to Jesus Christ.
It's the most pressing concern in the world.
I want you to see, first of all, in verses one and following, verses one and two, you have been committed to Christ, Paul says first.
You have been committed to Christ.
I never would have imagined until I studied this passage just how much is stopped in this first verse, but it begins a very important section where Paul is ripping those within the church, especially the false teachers, including those
Confused sheep with sarcasm, or any of you sarcastic at times.
Skating sarcasm will shred through this chapter to the end.
Listen to Paul in 2 Corinthians 11 to 1, you have been committed to Christ.
He says, I wish you would bear with me in a little foolishness, hear it seething off of every word.
do bear with me."
Now, Paul could be urging them to bear with him as some translations indicate or it could be not that Paul is calling them to bear with him.
Maybe he's acknowledging that they are bear with him or maybe he is just saying, please, for a moment, humor me, bear with me.
As we've already seen throughout this letter, Paul is put in a very uncomfortable position and he makes reference to it in chapter three, chapter four, chapter five, chapter six, chapter 10, here again in chapter 11, chapter 13.
He has put in the position of having to commend his faithful apostolic ministry before the children who owe their salvation in a sense to him.
Not that he saved them, but he brought the gospel to him.
He saw them, except Christ, was submit to his lordship and form a church.
He was there from the very beginning.
And now the slicters come in the church with this fancy pedigree, winning their affection, commending themselves through letters of recommendation.
Chapter three says, probably from other well-known people,
And Paul is put in this uncomfortable position of doing what Proverbs 27.2 says that you ought not do.
It says, let another man praise you, not that you praise yourself.
And it's not about Paul, it's about their sanctification on the table as spiritual children before false teachers.
And it's a very embarrassing situation for a humble and modest
man of God to be put in, not to exalt themselves, but so that they are receiving the truth.
So Paul will go on again in this chapter to lay out his spiritual resume and contrary to what we saw last Sunday and have seen throughout this letter, he's not going to point to his impressive speech.
his rhetoric that would win them over as they exalt themselves by doing.
He's not going to point to a very winsome presence that he brings, as they exalt themselves in his false teachers.
We'll see in chapter 11 that Paul will commend himself and his divine calling through his sufferings, through his weaknesses that prove that he is laying his life down as a sacrificial offering.
with no ulterior motives to show the worth of Christ and the value of his blood bought people.
And so he will go on to commend himself and he caused the whole escapade foolishness because it is foolish.
And Paul is put in the position of having to bear with it.
And so he asked the church pleading with them, bear with me, would you?
Are you already are bearing with me in such an embarrassing situation as his face probably blushes as he writes?
Look with me in chapter 11, verse 16 and following.
Why not?
Paul would say you bear with me because you're already bearing with the false teachers putting up with their nonsense.
You are bearing with them.
Paul says in verse 16 and following,
who would devour you, take advantage of you and slave you, put on heirs before you, and even he says, strike you in the face.
Has a fist fight broken out in the middle of church?
What's going on here?
Stay tuned.
And you're bearing with these hucksters.
Could you at least bear with me?
You know that in the devotion of your youth,
Your heart was so warm to the truth.
You love Christ.
You loved His Word.
You would have never been duped by these hucksters.
Paul says, what happened?
What happened?
He again asserts in chapter 11, verses 16 and 17, verse 21, again in chapter 12, that he's speaking as a fool, meaning that he's entertaining this foolish debate
commending themselves to those who should commend him.
And he does it to assert his apostolic authority so that they would receive his ministry and he would speak error or truth in the midst of error as they launched this smear campaign.
First Corinthians and second Corinthians often refer to foolishness.
First Corinthians 14, Paul says that he has made a fool for Christ's sake.
Friends, faithfulness to Jesus Christ means that you will look like a fool in the eyes of this world.
You will look like a fool in the eyes of this world.
We see in 1 Corinthians 3, 18 that a man must become a fool in the eyes of the world in order to truly be wise.
In chapter one verse 25 of 1 Corinthians, Paul says, the foolishness of God, as if there were foolishness of God,
is wiser than that of man.
He says that God chose what is foolish in the world to shame the so-called wise.
But the foolishness that we're speaking of now is indeed truly foolish.
Are we going to turn in your Bible and please do turn to Proverbs chapter 26.
I don't ever know how many verses I'm going to get through when I sit down to study because it's like opening a treasure chest and you know that gold is inside, but you just don't know how much.
And sometimes you open the treasure and there's a lot more in there than you thought, which is what happened to me this week.
I want you to look at Proverbs 26, four and five.
And I have a strong suspicion
that Paul could have had this passage in the back of his mind as he rose 2 Corinthians 11-1.
It's an enigma in and of itself.
It's a very interesting passage.
It's an extremely practical passage.
Are you there, Proverbs 26?
Look with me in verses four through five.
Prepare to scratch your head.
Answer not a fool according to his folly.
There it is, foolishness.
Bunch of foolishness.
Less you be like him yourself.
Verse five.
Answer a fool according to his folly.
Less he be wise in his own eyes.
Which is it, Paul?
What's going on here?
You need a nap.
Proverbs 26, answer not a fool or answer a fool.
I think Shakespeare would pose it this way.
To answer or not to answer, now that is the question.
And it looks like a contradiction.
Well, I wanna do something I don't normally like to do.
I wanna go back and plunder some of the Puritans of old
and some extended sections and all for the wisdom that they offer to us.
Listen to Matthew Henry.
He says, see here the noble security of the scripture style, which seems to contradict itself, but really does not.
Listen, wise men have need to be directed how to deal with fools.
Have you ever had to deal with fools?
Are you one?
Who is the fool?
It's the person
who rejects the fear and knowledge of God.
It's the person who will not be corrected, they're not teachable.
They scorn instruction.
And Matthew Henry says, and they never more need a wisdom than in dealing with such to know when to keep silence and when to speak.
Boy, you've been in that situation, haven't you?
Should I lock the lips or should I let them fly?
That's the question.
For there may be a time, Henry says, for both.
One, in some cases, a wise man will not set his wit to that of a fool so far as to answer him according to his folly.
If he boast of himself, do not answer by boasting of your self.
If he rail and talk passionately, do not rail and talk passionately yourself.
If he tell one great lie, do not tell another to match it.
If he culminate your friends, do not culminate his.
If he banter, do not answer him in his own language, lest you be like him, even you who know better things, who has more sense and has been better taught.
So there's a time not to engage in foolishness with a fool in fear that you will become a fool yourself.
John Gill on this passage mentions numerous examples, such as when King Hezekiah refused to answer.
Rapshika, when Jeremiah refused to answer Hennaniah, when Jesus Christ refused to answer the scribes and the Pharisees according to their folly.
But Matthew Henry goes on and he says, too, yet in other cases, a man will use this wisdom for the conviction of a fool when by taking notice of what he says, there may be hopes of doing good or at least preventing further mischief either to himself or others.
If you have reason to think that your silence will be deemed an evidence of the weakness of your cause or of your own weakness, in such a case, answer him and let it be an answer ad hominin.
to the man, beat him at his own weapons, and that will be an answer at rim, which means to the point, or as good as one.
If he offer anything that looks like an argument, in answer that, and suit your answer to his case, if he think that because he does not answer him, that what he says is unanswerable, then give him an answer, lest he be wise,
in his own conceit in boast of victory.
For Luke 735 says, wisdom is proved right or justified by your children.
What comes from the decisions and lifestyles of so-called wisdom will prove if it is indeed truly wise.
So to answer are not to answer a fool.
Now what's not on the table is that you play the fool yourself.
But what is on the answer, on the table is the answer to whether or not you address a fool.
And it depends on the dynamics of the situation.
It depends on the dynamics of the person, on the dynamics of those who are involved.
And that, ladies and gentlemen, requires prudence.
Biblical prudence and wisdom and discernment
in which James says, if you lack that, ask God, he is more freely to give it than you are to receive it.
I wanna share one other lengthy passage, which again, ordinarily I don't want to do, but I think understanding sake would help us.
Matthew Poole explains the same verses this way.
How can these contrary rules be reconciled?
Answer him not and answer him.
Answer easily.
by considering the difference of persons and times and places and other circumstances, and of the manner of answering.
And such seemingly contradictory precepts are not only used by, but are esteemed, elegant, and other authors.
Answering him not, Poole says, when he is incarrogable, or when he is inflamed with passion or wine, or when it's not necessary, or when it's
not likely to do him good.
Answer him when he's capable of receiving good by it or when it is necessary for the glory of God or for the discharge of a man's duty or for the good of others.
According to his folly, he says so as to imitate his folly by such passionate or reproachful or foolish speeches as he uses to you.
Be likened to him.
Show yourself to be as great, a fool as he,
according to his folly.
According to his folly, he is so as his folly needs and requires convincing him strongly, reproving him sharply, exposing him to just shame and correcting him with a rod when he deserves it.
And you have a just power to use it lest he be wise in his own conceit, lest your silence make him arrogant and presumptuous as if his words were unanswerable.
So there is a time when Jesus says that we
do not put our pearls before pigs, that they be trampled on by fools who in their persistent sin refuse to receive them and only make a mockery of them.
And yet wisdom is needed to know when we would entertain such foolishness, but we're careful not to become like the fool, but to speak truth in a very wise and discerning way
into the situation.
So the apostle Paul determines that he will answer these fools according to their folly.
And he'll do so masterfully pleading with the church to bear with him, yet without becoming like the fools himself.
Look what's me in 2 Corinthians 11.
He'll pick back up with this conversation later in the chapter, and you'll see how he does it.
But first of all, I want you to see what I believe to be two of the most powerful verses in the Bible, beginning with verse two, as he expresses his motivation for doing so.
And it's not to clobber them, it's not in conceit to exalt himself,
The only reason why he even entertains this, he lays out in verse two, I want you to read with me.
So passionately, so personally, he says, for I feel a divine jealousy.
The King James reads a godly jealousy.
It could literally say, I feel the jealousy of God for you.
He says, since I betrothed you to one husband to present you as a pure virgin to Christ, I can't even get those words off my tongue without chills running down my spine.
I want us to soak in this.
What a sure powerful explosive little verse that we need to hear and respond to today.
Throughout, first and second Corinthians, Paul speaks of jealousy in the church.
They're envying one another, comparing themselves with one another, trying to one up one another, and strife is filling the church.
And Paul rebukes them.
He corrects that because it's sin, because they're warring with one another as brothers and sisters in Christ.
But the word jealousy is used in a different way.
In 1 Corinthians 10, 22,
when he says that by your idolatry, you are provoking the jealousy of God.
It's a righteous jealousy unlike the jealousy that we would experience wrongly oftentimes in our lives.
Did you know that not all jealousy is sinful?
Exodus chapter 20 verse five says, God speaking, I the Lord your God, am a what?
Jealous God.
So there is a jealous God and there is a godly jealousy such as you would find in a man who guards the purity of his wife.
The guards the purity of his daughter.
You see such jealousy in God who would guard the purity and demand the soul worship of his own bride, of his own daughter.
because he is the rightful heir of all of her affection and all of her allegiance.
The Webster's 1828 dictionary defines jealousy this way, suspicious, apprehensive of rival ship, uneasy through fear that another has withdrawn or may withdraw from one the affections of a person he loves or enjoy some good which he desires to obtain.
Now, we have to distinguish sinful jealousy from godly jealousy.
We're not talking about a level of paranoia, an idolatrous paranoia, a suspicious husband who's always reading unfaithfulness into his wife or into another.
That can very easily become a sinful, unjustified jealousy.
We're not talking about a jealousy
that would be directed toward coveting another person or what another person has wanting to make it yours.
Godly jealousy looks like Numbers chapter 25 verses 11 through 13.
I will allow you to go back and read the story.
Suffice to say the Bible says that Phineas was jealous with the jealousy of God for God's people.
And quite literally,
He speared sin to death.
It's the same terminology that we see here as Paul, who is their father in the faith.
He mentions in 1 Corinthians 4, 15.
Paul also, as we see in John 3, 29, would be a friend of the bride.
And he's fearful, not in a sinful way, but he's rightfully concerned.
It's a deep-seated concern.
that he has for the church because the church is being allured into giving her affection to another lover, to one who would pretend to represent God, but in reality would rival God for his glory.
So God is rightfully jealous for the worship and glory and affection and communion of his people, among other so-called gods that is rightfully
friends, we serve in the most righteous sense of the word, a jealous God, because he loves what is his.
And just as when a man is robbed of the affection and the purity of his wife, that is rightfully his at the hands of an adulterating intruder.
So God, when robbed of the affection and purity of his own bride,
The church will avenge those intruders who step upon what is rightfully his.
This matter of spiritual seduction is a very serious matter in the eyes of God.
Look with me in verse two.
Since I betrothed you to one husband, I believe he's speaking to their salvation
when they were united to Christ in saving faith.
Paul says that he as their father in the faith has betrothed them, has united them, has brought them together with their groom through the blood of Jesus Christ.
And to even understand the weightiness of what's before us, there's mountains underneath the service that we have to understand.
before we understand since I betrothed you to one husband.
We're just coming off of Christmas.
Do you remember Mary and Joseph?
The one betrothed to the other, which was a common practice in the ancient world.
In some ways, it would be likened to modern engagement and yet in other ways, much stronger.
There was commonly a period of betrothal
in the ancient world as a young lady's father would diligently vet any potential suitor for his daughter.
And that would happen well before any strings were attached between his daughter and between the young man.
Now what we see in our modern dating culture is exactly the opposite.
Basically what you see in modern worldly dating culture
is nothing more than divorce practice.
In and out of one relationship after another without any father engaged and involved in that practice is unbiblical to the core.
Because what we don't see is the authority of a father taking initiative to oversee his daughter's purity and her future marriage.
And so what is understood in the terminology before us in verse two is that there is a head
represented in that father figure who's serving as a gatekeeper to any potential suitor.
In every jurisdiction in our lives, from the family to the church to the civil magistrate, there's a gatekeeper.
And what do we call those who refuse to come through the gatekeeper?
They're called wolves.
And in the church and in the family and in the state, there's a head that's appointed with the authority of God
This is very important.
And that young suitor would come through the gatekeeper as the head of his home, and ordinarily there would be a period of about a year that would take place when a young man would prepare a place for his soon-to-be bride.
Do you see the terminology?
Is our father away?
Is he preparing a place for us before we are fully united with him?
And the two would
Prepare themselves for one another and a father would protect and prepare his daughter and her purity.
And during this typically year-long period, this preparation is happening and then a marriage ceremony.
would be beautifully held in order.
There would be much more to it, but at the very least, that marriage ceremony would be held, and they would recite covenant vows together.
The bride, here it is, the terminology, the bride would be presented.
The bride would be given by her head to another head that would be responsible for her, and then the marriage after the covenant vows have been given and received would be celebrated.
and a glorious consummation of that marriage.
So during this betrothal period, the blessings of marriage, particularly the marriage bed, were not yet enjoyed.
But in the ancient world, ordinarily only death or divorce would break that commitment of marriage.
As a matter of fact, impurity would be likened to adultery.
And unless there were other vital information that was brought forward as to why they shouldn't marry, they would be prepared.
So drawing on that, I want you to turn in your Bibles with me to Hosea chapter two, the same exact idea, the same exact language, the same customs are what the Lord draws upon,
to explain for us, not just practical wisdom, all that's there, but covenantal language as it pertains to our relationship with God.
Hosea chapter two, I know that you're checking your table of contents, please do, it's in there, I promise.
Hosea chapter two, listen to what God says in verse 19, and I will what?
The ages are flipping.
It's a glorious sound.
What is it I will?
I will betrow you to me forever.
I will what?
Betrow you to me in righteousness and injustice, in steadfast love and in mercy.
Betrow you to me in faithfulness, and you shall know the Lord.
So the Father God is taking the initiative to covenantally bind us to Himself in covenantal language of matrimony.
Now, flip back with me to 2 Corinthians chapter 11 verse 2.
As God binds us as His church, as His people to Himself through His own blood, married to Christ, as the bride of Christ, the church, verse 2 says,
Here's the reason to present you the church, including Reformation Baptist Church as a pure virgin, which refers to in holiness before the Lord to Christ.
I believe the reference is when Jesus returns.
So Deuteronomy 22 lays out the responsibility of a father for the purity of his daughter and he had authority over her.
So much so,
which is why we are patriarchal as a church, mainly because the Bible is patriarchal.
Numbers chapter 30 says that if a daughter makes vows contrary to the wishes of his father, the father can unilaterally cancel those vows because he's responsible for her while she's under his headship.
And just as the father gives his life
in hopes that he would one day present his daughter as a pure virgin in marriage, one that he can bless, one that honors the Lord, one that honors his family.
Watch this in chapter 11, verse two, the Apostle Paul as a father to this church in an earthly sense has committed the church, the church to Jesus Christ alone.
And he has so much skin in the game, he has pastorally pledged
to keep her pure and to present her mature and spotless at the day of Jesus Christ.
Do you see it?
Look at Colossians 1, 22.
He has now reconciled in his body of flesh by his death and ordered the same language to present you Reformation Baptist Church.
holy and blameless and above reproach before Him.
Him we proclaim, warning everyone and teaching everyone with all wisdom that we may again present everyone mature in Jesus Christ.
That's the pastor's charge to present every member of the flock
to which God has entrusted him mature in Jesus Christ before either that believer's death or Jesus Christ returned.
This is our aim.
Ephesians chapter 5 verse 27, playing on marriage, the picture of this in our lives says the same thing regarding us in Christ in our union so that he Christ might present the church
to himself in splendor without spot or wrinkle or any such thing that she might be holy and without blemish.
God has a wonderful plan for your life, and this is it right here, that we would be presented before him.
And if you have an ounce of honesty within your soul, as you reflect upon your heart, you would say, I feel anything and everything
But that, holy and blameless and spotless before God.
And I wanna show you what God has done in our lives.
Turn with me in your Bible to another passage, Ezekiel chapter 16.
And I promise that that's in there too.
Look at your table of contents.
In Ezekiel chapter 16,
God takes a filthy people, a people that were wallowing in their own blood, a people left for dead.
And God washes them.
God does for them what they couldn't and what they wouldn't do for themselves.
He pities them.
He nurtures every needed grace within them.
He adorns them with beauty.
And yet that bride goes out and prostitutes herself with other idolatrous lovers, and she forgets and rebels against her groom.
And God goes after her, taking the divine initiative, and he disciplines her, and he promises her not only as a bride, but as a child, he promises to restore her, he establishes his covenant with her,
He cleanses her, he puts his spirit within her through the new covenant.
And he makes her beautiful before him.
That's the beginning of the story.
Turn with me to some other passages at the end of the story.
Revelation chapter 19, verses seven through nine speaks of a rejoicing over the marriage of the Lamb.
with a bride who has made herself ready, meaning she too has a responsibility.
She's clothed with fine linen.
She's bright and pure.
She's decked in the righteous deeds of the saints.
And just as the Bible begins with a wedding, so the Bible ends with a wedding.
Revelation 13, 4 says, it is these who have not defiled themselves with women for their virgins.
It is these who follow the lamb, wherever he goes.
Wouldn't that be a wonderful verse for your family?
What do we do in this house?
We follow the lamb, wherever he goes.
When they look beautiful above our hearts, above our church, what does Reformation Baptist Church do?
They follow the lamb, wherever he goes.
They are already spoken for, and they have been promised to Christ, and now finally meet their end in Revelation 21, verse 2.
A preview, ladies and gentlemen, of coming attractions.
And I saw the holy city, New Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God, prepared as a bride, adorned for her husband,
Verse 9 says, come, I will show you the bride, the wife of the lamb, and he carried me away in the spirit to a great high mountain and listen to what God will do for his bride in verse 11.
Having the glory of God, it's radiance like a most rare jewel, like a jasper, clear as crystal.
And even as we prepare ourselves
for that day, God promises that He will present us in such a way, doing for us what we can't even do for ourselves.
So the exhortation is this, stay true to that end.
Ladies and gentlemen, remember who you are.
Remember who you belong to.
Remember who you're pledged to and seek to walk in holiness before the Lord.
Turn back with me to second Corinthians chapter 11.
Not only number one, have you been committed to Christ?
That's the good news.
Number two, you are being deceived in your devotion.
That is the bad news.
Look with me in second Corinthians 11, three, at the stunning words, and God may have been never said of our lives.
But I am afraid, deeply concerned, that as the serpent deceived Eve by his cunning, your thoughts, there it is again, will be led astray from a sincere and pure devotion to Christ.
This is what keeps Paul up at night.
This is the deepest concern of his life.
This is why he'll come back later in 2 Corinthians 7, and he'll reveal all of his beatings, his shipwrecks as sea, his physical torture, and all of the afflictions that he went through.
And he said that on top of that is the daily pressure on him of his anxiety for all the churches.
You can't ever check out.
It's a deep concern, but we'd be faithful to the Lord.
How are they doing as they're wrestling
under the weight of that trial, will they press into Christ?
Will they press into Him?
It's a deep hanging of the pastor's heart day and night for the unity of the church, for the stability of the church, for the maturity of the church.
And I am here to tell you that I feel this in every fiber of my being.
and nothing has racked my soul more than this.
Paul says in 1 Thessalonians 3, for this reason, when I could bear it no longer, I sent to learn about your faith for fear that somehow the tempter had tempted you and our labor would be in vain.
The greatest fear of a pastor's heart is that Satan would seduce the people, even him, and throw all of the hard labors that have gone into
our sanctification before Christ.
Look with me in the Bible in 2 Corinthians 11, 3, as the serpent deceived or beguiled Eve.
The word refers to cheating, to deceiving, to trickery, to causing someone to accept false ideas.
Is that a problem today?
This takes us all the way back to the garden.
Please turn in your Bibles to Genesis chapter 3.
Genesis chapter 3.
This language of deceit, of beguiling, is the same language that opens up Genesis chapter three, verse one.
The first man and the first woman made in the image of God.
All things are created by God and called good.
And here's the turning point.
And here's where all of hell is unleashed.
Every difficulty in your life comes back to these verses.
Now the serpent.
was more crafty than any other beast of the field that the Lord God had made.
He said to the woman, did God actually say, you shall not eat of any tree in the garden?
And the woman said to the serpent,
We may eat of the fruit of the trees in the garden, but God said, you shall not eat of the fruit of the tree that is in the midst of the garden, nor shall you touch it lest you die.
God had made himself clear.
And potentially there's multitudes of trees to fill every delight within their soul, but this one off limits for their own good.
But the serpent said,
to the woman.
You will not surely die.
For God knows that when you eat of it, your eyes will be opened.
You will be like God knowing good and evil.
God is holding out on you.
God is just trying to withhold good from you.
He is an unruly tyrant and the serpent in the craftiest of ways is not coming out of the gate with some bizarre doctrine that would never be accepted.
But in the craftiest of ways, he is casting doubt on the character of God.
He's casting doubt on the goodness of God.
And there's even greater problems and we'll see him in a minute.
So when the woman saw verse six that the tree was good for food and that it was a delight to the eyes and that the tree was good
or was to be desired to make one wise, she took of its fruit and aid.
And she also gave some to her husband who was with her and he ate.
Now, there are so many questions here, so many questions.
Who is this serpent?
A better, yeah.
Why is he talking?
Better, yeah.
Why are they acting like this is normal?
What is going on here?
Before the fall, before sin entered the world, maybe such things wouldn't be quite so unlikely as we consider them today.
Clearly, the serpent is overstepping the appointed bounds of God, and he is the master deceiver.
So the question is, who is this intruder in the garden?
And I believe that here, and especially elsewhere, such as in Revelation chapter 20, verse two, I believe he's clearly identified as Satan.
The adversary of our souls.
He's mentioned oftentimes in Corinthians.
It seems that he had fallen from glory.
And now he seeks to undermine God's glory and undermine God's word before those who would bear God's image in glory.
Turn back to 2 Corinthians 11, three.
We see the serpent's cunning.
It could read his subtlety or his craftiness.
It's a spiritual seduction.
Paul's already said, and listen to me carefully, church family be warned, in 2 Corinthians 2, 11, that we are not ignorant of Satan's devices.
And in the context of chapter 2, it's not horns and pitchforks, it's unforgiven sin in the church that are used in Satan's hands to bring division to God's people.
In 2 Corinthians 4, 4, we read of the God of this age.
In chapter 6,
Jesus Christ has nothing to do with Belial, Satan.
In chapter 11, verse 14, Satan disguises himself.
He masquerades as an angel of light through false teachers who aren't what they appear.
In chapter 12, he harasses the apostle Paul himself.
It's no wonder John 8 says, you are of your father, the devil, and your will is to do your father's desires.
He was a murderer from the beginning and does not stand in the truth because there is no truth in him.
When he lies, he speaks out of his own character for he is a liar and a father of lies.
That's who he is.
He never produces what he promises.
He will buy you a ticket wherever you want to go and he will pay your way to get there and he will wreck the train before it leaves the station.
He is crafty.
The next question in Genesis 3 is what happened to the woman?
She entertains douse about the clarity of God's word, the goodness of God's character, the sufficiency of God's word.
And she does what every sinner in her train, including you and me, does, brazenly thinking that you know better than God.
Have you ever
Realize that about yourself.
We think we know better than God.
God, how could you?
I have a better plan for my life than you do.
I wanna show you what happens so that you can see the parallel.
And I mean this in the most respectful and honorable way possible.
But what I'm going to share will not exactly get me the preacher of the year award.
So be prepared.
1 Timothy 2 12 says, I do not permit a woman to teach or to exercise authority over a man.
Rather, she is to remain quiet, which is what our godly women in our church desire.
But it's a commentary on Genesis 3 and 2 Corinthians 11, because it says, for Adam was formed first, then Eve.
And Eve was not deceived, but the woman was deceived and became a transgressor.
Now that doesn't let Adam off because all of us are plunged into our federal head, Adam, as sinners.
But what Paul says is that the order is that the woman was deceived.
and then became a transgressor, verse 15, but she will be saved.
And she will not be saved through asserting her independence.
She will not be saved by sterilizing her womb.
She will not be saved by asserting her own autonomy and acting and living like a man, which is what our world teaches today.
Yet she will be saved through childbearing.
if they continue in faith and love and holiness with self-control.
Now, ordinarily that means literally bearing children, but certainly some providentially are not allowed to have children before God.
The greater point here, I believe, is that Eve, who is literally named life, was an instrument in God's hand to create and produce life.
And when she was deceived by the serpent and took of the
of the fruit, the instrument of life plunge the entire world into death.
And in order for her not literally to be justified before God and go to heaven, but in order to remove the stigma of death which she was not created for, she would in turn once again become a righteous instrument of life.
She would bring the life of Jesus Christ, the Savior of the world into the world.
She would be an instrument to bring image bearers of God into the world and to disciple them so that they too will go wherever the lamb goes.
And she will be a part in the hands of God of reversing the curse that she gave herself to.
Listen to 1 Peter 3.7.
Likewise, husbands, live with your wives in an understanding way showing honor to the woman as the weaker vessel.
Since they are heirs with you of the grace of life so that your prayers may not be hindered.
Husbands, if you don't live with your wife in an understanding way, God will close his ears to your prayers.
And the reason is, is because you have been entrusted as a head
over her life, all of us are created for headship.
And Scripture lays out the order.
A woman is to come under the headship of her father and then her husband because she has been created with a good and glorious role, but she is the weaker vessel.
Now, obviously, we understand this to mean physically.
What are we doing in this country by allowing women to go to the front lines of combat?
My daughter will not be going to the front lines of combat over my dead body.
What are we doing in this country putting women in men's sports?
What kind of delusion are we living in that we're even having to talk about this?
Of course, ordinarily women are weaker and smaller
then men and every exception that a person can come up with only proves the rule.
But what is it for woman to be the weaker vessel?
Again, probably not going to be the most popular preacher of the year, but hang with me.
I believe that women are also the weaker vessel
in the sense that God has given them a nature, a constitution to nurture life, to bring life into the world.
And even when they can't bring life into the world, women by the grace of God naturally nurture life, older women in our church nurture younger women and they promote life.
Everything she touches comes to life and is exalted in glory and in beauty.
And just like every other good virtue that God puts within us, Satan loves to manipulate that nurturing spirit.
So what can so easily happen is that they who are made to nurture life, they who are made to build consensus by bringing families together.
Their gifts can be exploited with deceptions and easily, ordinarily, a woman's emotions can be played on.
because naturally she cares, naturally she coddles.
And so just as easily a woman can be led astray by her emotions rather than subduing her emotions so that they're guided by truth.
And so there's a deception that can very easily come, which is why God created them to be under the headship of a husband who loved them
who lead them, who benevolently rule their homes for the good of all who are under their care.
Women are biblically forbidden from ruling in the home.
Women are biblically forbidden from ruling churches.
Women are biblically forbidden from ruling communities, nations, and serving as civil magistrates.
Because God did not create them for that.
Isaiah 3 12 says that it is a cursed to be ruled by women because God did not create them for that role.
It is a burden they were not made to bear.
And the exception of Deborah who ruled Israel only proves the rule all the more that in exceptional cases of cowardly men, women oftentimes have to step forward when there are none around them willing to do it.
Because she is an instrument of life and not of death, she is not to be leading into combat.
And Deborah knew that.
What women are to do is to participate in this glorious role of nurturing life, building families, building churches, teaching younger women and children under the headship of Christ.
Listen to 1 Corinthians 11, the head of every man is Christ.
The head of a wife is her husband and the head of Christ is God.
1 Corinthians 14, 34, the woman should keep silent in the churches, for they are not permitted to speak, but should be in submission, as the law also says, if there is anything they desire to learn, let them ask their husbands at home.
I believe they're talking about the gathering of the church on the Lord's Day, Sunday morning.
So what this means is that a woman has a glorious role before God to bring forth this life in a way that no man ever could dream of doing.
And yet her head
is her husband or if she has no husband, her father or her family who step in to provide that protection for her.
Her church who step in to provide that protection for her and listen to me men.
It says that if they have questions first and foremost, let them ask their husbands at home.
Do you know what that means?
You have to know the answer.
You better know it, buddy, because she's coming to you.
You're her pastor before anybody else's.
Now, please come to me.
I'm your pastor.
I want to talk to you.
I want to work through this.
But the last question that I want to ask and answer, and I don't know, maybe by Monday, I'll finish this sermon, but I can't stop now.
Where is Adam?
I don't know.
Maybe he's fishing.
Could be in a hunting stand.
Who knows?
Maybe he's working legitimately.
What we know about man is that man is supposed to be standing guard.
And for whatever reason, whether physically he's present the whole time, which it seems that he is, or whether he's not, he is not standing guard.
And that serpent knows to bypass the head
and to jump the back of the fence rather than going through the gatekeeper, and he deceives the woman who is held fully responsible, and yet the man is an innocent bystander who is abandoned his post and letting all of it happen.
So where is he at?
Where is he at?
Just as you see the wicked Ahab right behind him, you see Jezebel and the two are
two peas in a pod.
So turn back with man, let's bring conclusion to this matter in 2 Corinthians, in chapter 11, verse three.
All of that is assumed when Paul says the same exact thing is happening in the church.
Rather than coming through the gatekeeper, Satan is going after picking him off one at a time
The church as Christ broad bypassing the Apostle Paul and she's being deceived by these cunning hucksters.
And Paul said that it would happen.
Wolves will spring up from among you and they will pick away the flock.
It is a dangerous thing, ladies and gentlemen, Proverbs says when a man isolates himself because he becomes easy prey for the enemy.
Second Corinthians 11-3, the word for thought,
Five of the six uses are in 2 Corinthians.
Your thoughts, your minds will be led astray.
It refers to corruption, to moral ruin.
We've already said to take every thought captive.
Here's what happens when we don't do that from a sincere and pure devotion to Christ.
It could read a simplicity that is in Christ.
Ladies and gentlemen, I submit to you again, as I did last week and the week before Christianity is always won or lost in the mind.
What do we allow to occupy our minds?
What do we nurse and what do we rehearse in our heads day after day after day?
Because what we allow to occupy, our minds becomes a fortress in our hearts and it controls our lives every single time.
Guard the mind with all of your life.
Don't empty the mind, fill the mind with the truth of God.
Colossians 2 says that truth is laid out.
So no one would delude you, take you captive because the implications are great.
Any soldier who commits treason, any sailor who commits mutiny, any servant who betrays allegiance and disloyalty to his master, he knows the penalty is death.
And death is what we rightly deserve because we have deserted God.
And God paid the penalty of death so that we would never have to die again.
Run to Him.
So what is this sincere and pure devotion to Christ?
Other translations just translate it simplicity.
The word for sincere, it refers to a singleness of mind.
It refers to a united purpose.
It means that there are not divided loyalties and allegiances.
It means that you're not straddling the fence.
You're not conflicted in your loyalties.
You're not duplicious.
You're unswerving in your commitment.
You have one aim.
in life.
2 Corinthians 5 says, and that is to please Jesus Christ.
It's a single hearted devotion that will not be swayed.
You will look no other way, but forward to the cross.
Calvin said, is that which keeps us in the unadulterated and pure doctrine of the gospel?
The word purity refers to moral blamelessness.
These are the twin towers in our life that we are to guard with everything we have, our single-minded devotion and our puretiness, a purity of heart before the Lord.
Paul says in 2 Corinthians 1, 12, he lived with simplicity and godly sincerity.
He says in
2 Corinthians 6, that he commends himself and it's by purity.
He says in Ephesians 6, that servants are to obey their masters with a sincere heart.
God give us this morning a sincere and pure devotion to Christ.
I remember Jeremiah says the devotion of your youth.
How you would have crawled over broken glass, three continents wide to be faithful to me.
What happened?
Come back today.
Be cleansed in the fountain of his blood and be made pure and white as a virgin and as snow before God through the finished work of Jesus Christ and follow the Lamb wherever he goes.
And be presented
and all splendor and glory before him.
Friends, don't flirt with it.
For sake, the federal headship of Adam to which all of us find ourselves under men, women, boys and girls alike, we are under his headship and we are destined for death because Adam and sin is our master.
Come back under.
The headship of your Father in heaven through Jesus Christ.
He is good and he is king.
Let's pray.
Father, would you help us?
Me, the chief of which is in need of your help.
Would you help us not to be led astray, but to have discernment?
And would you renew within each one of us
From the youngest to the oldest men and women of all stripes and backgrounds alike, or would you give us a sincere and pure devotion to Christ?
Would you rekindle that within our souls this morning as our head?
Lord, would you help us?
Would you help me not to walk out from under your headship and be so easily deceived?
But would you help me to love you and submit to you?
And would you help us?
In Jesus' name we pray.
Amen.